README.md, before:

# VARpedia - SOFTENG 206 Project
### Group 12 - Di Kun Ong (dngo711) & Tudor Zagreanu (tzag747)

*Check out the VARpedia GitHub: https://github.com/dikunong/VARpedia*

VARpedia is an encyclopedia tool that provides visual, aural and reading capabilities for **a second language learner, young adult (18-25 years).**

## Running the JAR file

#### On Windows AND On Linux (incl. Beta Linux in UoA labs)

_For marking purposes, this should be tested on the Beta Linux image on the lab computers._

_As stated above, the target audience of this app is a second language learner, young adult (18-25 years)._

**_NOTE: VARpedia is dependent on an_** `ffmpeg` **_version of at least 4.x. Some lab computers have an older version 2.x, which will not work. Before marking, please check your computer's_** `ffmpeg` **_version using the following command:_**

`ffmpeg -version`

Execute the following command:

`java -jar VARpedia.jar`

#### On SOFTENG 206 VirtualBox Image ONLY

A script file has been provided for running the JAR in the VirtualBox. It assumes that the JAR file has been moved out of /build/libs and into the root directory.

`./run_varpedia_vbox.sh`

*NOTE: If you are building your own JAR and wish for dev builds in IntelliJ and the production JAR to access the same /creations folder, move the JAR file from /build/libs to the root directory.*

## Building the JAR file

Execute the following command:

`gradlew.bat shadowJar`

This will produce a runnable JAR file in /build/libs.

Note that there's a weird issue where Gradle can't find your JDK install - if this happens, you need to
manually set it by creating a `gradle.properties` file in the root directory, with this line in it:

`org.gradle.java.home=HOME_DIRECTORY`

where `HOME_DIRECTORY` is your JDK install directory e.g. `C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk1.8.0_202`

## Attribution

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/perspective.mp3

Music "another perspective" by panu featuring airtone, onlymeith  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/panumoon/60396  
Under CC BY NC license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/  

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/chinese.mp3

Music "mandolin chinese (moscardo remix)" by moscardo  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/moscardo/60170  
Under CC BY NC license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/  

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/sirius.mp3

Music "Sirius Crystal" by Speck featuring Sascha Ende, Apoxode  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/speck/60126  
Under CC BY license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

Commit message:

Add DEVLOG for project marking, update README

README.md, after:

# VARpedia - SOFTENG 206 Project
### Group 12 - Di Kun Ong (dngo711) & Tudor Zagreanu (tzag747)

*Check out the VARpedia GitHub: https://github.com/dikunong/VARpedia*  
*Our project devlog can be accessed in the file DEVLOG.md, or at: https://github.com/dikunong/VARpedia/wiki/Development-Log*

VARpedia is an encyclopedia tool that provides visual, aural and reading capabilities for **a second language learner, young adult (18-25 years).**

## Running the JAR file

#### On Windows AND On Linux (incl. Beta Linux in UoA labs)

_For marking purposes, this should be tested on the Beta Linux image on the lab computers._

_As stated above, the target audience of this app is a second language learner, young adult (18-25 years)._

**_NOTE: VARpedia is dependent on an_** `ffmpeg` **_version of at least 4.x. Some lab computers have an older version 2.x, which will not work. Before marking, please check your computer's_** `ffmpeg` **_version using the following command:_**

`ffmpeg -version`

Execute the following command:

`java -jar VARpedia.jar`

#### On SOFTENG 206 VirtualBox Image ONLY

A script file has been provided for running the JAR in the VirtualBox. It assumes that the JAR file has been moved out of /build/libs and into the root directory.

`./run_varpedia_vbox.sh`

*NOTE: If you are building your own JAR and wish for dev builds in IntelliJ and the production JAR to access the same /creations folder, move the JAR file from /build/libs to the root directory.*

## Building the JAR file

Execute the following command:

`gradlew.bat shadowJar`

This will produce a runnable JAR file in /build/libs.

Note that there's a weird issue where Gradle can't find your JDK install - if this happens, you need to
manually set it by creating a `gradle.properties` file in the root directory, with this line in it:

`org.gradle.java.home=HOME_DIRECTORY`

where `HOME_DIRECTORY` is your JDK install directory e.g. `C:\\Program Files\\Java\\jdk1.8.0_202`

## Flickr API

VARpedia makes use of the Flickr API to download publicly available images for use in user creations.

If you wish to run this application from the source code or build it yourself, you will need to supply your own Flickr API keys in the following location:

`src/main/resources/varpedia/key.txt`

This file should have the apiKey on the first and the sharedSecret on the second line.
There should be no labels or other text in the file, like below:

`xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`  
`xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx`

## Attribution

### Libraries

#### Flickr4Java
Available at https://github.com/boncey/Flickr4Java

#### SLF4J (used by Flickr4Java)
Available at http://www.slf4j.org/

### Music

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/perspective.mp3

Music "another perspective" by panu featuring airtone, onlymeith  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/panumoon/60396  
Under CC BY NC license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/  

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/chinese.mp3

Music "mandolin chinese (moscardo remix)" by moscardo  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/moscardo/60170  
Under CC BY NC license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/  

#### src/main/resources/varpedia/music/sirius.mp3

Music "Sirius Crystal" by Speck featuring Sascha Ende, Apoxode  
Available at ccMixter.org http://ccmixter.org/files/speck/60126  
Under CC BY license http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
